>> Zac Gordon: Before I get rolling,
I just have to plug Frontend Masters for
one more second, because Mark and
the team here has done some amazing stuff.
And me coming to be here is a huge honor,
because some of the instructors that
they have on this site are the top-notch
people out there writing books, lecturing,
talking about JavaScript in super depth.
So if you haven't checked out their other
courses and stuff, I highly suggest it.
It will take any level of JavaScript
you have and go way, way deeper.
So that said, way to go you all,
Frontend Masters, where it's at.
Now, this JavaScript for WordPress
workshop is a little bit interesting,
because we're coming to WordPress
from a very unconventional avenue,
which is from the world of JavaScript.
So we've already gone through hopefully
everybody has everything set up
that we need.
So I wanted to start off just talking
about why as a JavaScript developer,
or why as a developer,
we should care much about WordPress.
And I don't have my notes here but
we're gonna make this work.
So, first of all, if you don't know what
WordPress is, it say content management
system, which means that it let's
you edit and manage your data.
It could manage media,
anything form videos to audio to pictures.
It could deal to post and pages,
it can also deal to custom content.
So you could set up your own thing
like projects or events, and
you could set up your own custom fields
to have whatever conditions you want.
It's also very extendable, so it has two
kind of directions of extendability.
You have themes, which controls
how all the content looks, and
then you have plugins which extend
the functionality of WordPress itself.
Now, traditionally,
all of this was done in PHP and
WordPress is build on
a very open source stack.
But that's shifting a lot.
As a developer that knows JavaScript you
have a huge win in the world of WordPress,
because it's becoming more and
more JavaScript driven, but not as many
people in the WordPress space, even
experienced developers know JavaScript.
So if you have some of that foundation and
you learn just a little bit of WordPress,
you're already much ahead
than a lot of other folks.
So that's one of the main
benefits coming into this.
The other is that if you're
building applications out there,
WordPress can offer a lot in terms of
taking care a lot of what you would maybe
call like the application framework or
foundational stuff, handling login,
handling user credentials,
handling user roles, managing the content,
having the database synced up,
having an API available.
So if you're rolling your own,
that's gonna be quite a lot of work and
it may be something helpful there.
So that's kind of the two areas of why,
as a JavaScript and general developer
it's helpful to know about WordPress,
especially in the time we're at now.
So historically, WordPress
developers have lived in a bubble,
just like a lot of us live in bubbles, and
this bubble has been a very safe place for
learning how to develop.
Some of the top WordPress plug in and
theme developers out there
learned everything they know about
Web Development from WordPress.
You could learn HTML, CSS, PHP and
JavaScript all at the very
easy barrier to entry.